# AI-anxiety-in-GAI-use-among-university-students
This repository contains a dataset that proposed in the paper " Disentangling AI anxiety in GAI use among university students: A mixed-methods study". This study employs a sequential mixed-methods approach to provide a comprehensive understanding of different types of AI anxiety and how GAI features contribute to or alleviate AI anxiety among university students. Based on semi-structured interviews, Study 1 revealed that AI anxiety among university students consists of job replacement anxiety, privacy anxiety, and dependency anxiety. Subsequently, based on survey study among 450 university students, Study 2 found that the effects of GAI features (i.e., explainability, autonomy, perceived ease of use, and relative advantage) on the three types of AI anxiety vary across GAI features. Furthermore, AI awareness was found to moderate the effects of GAI features (explainability, perceived ease of use, and relative advantage) on privacy anxiety but does not moderate their effects on other types of anxiety. This research enriches the literature by identifying three types of AI anxiety in GAI use and by demonstrating the diverse effects of various GAI features on them. It also provides understanding of the role of AI awareness in mitigating privacy anxiety. For university students, GAI developers, and higher educational institutions, this study provides insights into the understanding of various types of AI anxiety and the reasons behind them as well as the practical guideline for mitigating AI anxiety.
